There is a popular theory that views the Tournament of Roses as a prime reason 
-- the prime reason -- for the population explosion in Southern California. 
Every year on New Year's Day, millions of shivering Easterners and 
Midwesterners tune their television sets to the festivities in Pasadena. What 
they see is a compelling small-screen vision of balmy revelry, complete with 
suntanned princesses, football players in short sleeves, swirls of flowers and 
sun-dappled mountains. Then, migrating like lemmings, dazzled television 
viewers join the westward march. 
So goes the theory. 
For a century, Pasadenans have treasured that vision of their city as a place 
where dreams come true and the weather's fine any time of year. 
But behind the image of civilized hoopla is a complicated city of 132,000, 
struggling fitfully to reconcile its diverse elements. These days, the 
once-idyllic community -- which seems to stretch across the map of the western 
San Gabriel Valley like a child's bib -- has gangs, drugs, smog and a running 
debate on development. But it also can boast of visionary entrepreneurship, 
socially concerned city leaders, impressive arts and educational institutions 
and -- especially during the holiday season -- a spirit of optimism. 
"The Tournament focuses international attention on the city," said Pasadena 
Mayor William Thomson, "but it's also a time of celebration within the city. We 
tend to put aside our troubles and differences and focus on the good things in 
our lives." 
The Rose Parade, which began 101 years ago as a horse-and-buggy romp through 
wrestern Pasadena, now cuts through the geographical and economic heart of the 
city. For discerning Pasadenans, the 5.5-mile parade route represents a brief 
tour of the city's high points and low points. 
It begins, fittingly, on Orange Grove Boulevard, where the city itself began in 
the late 19th Century. The parade starts out from the heart of well-to-do 
Pasadena, in a palmy section south of the Rose Bowl called "Millionaire's Row." 
By 8:10 a.m. today, when the Riverside Community College Marching Tigers Band 
leads the parade down the boulevard, the neighborhood will be crammed with 
floats and marchers. 
For well-heeled residents, this is something between a nuisance and a blessing. 
"You sort of can't live with it and you can't live without it," said Ken 
Grobecker, who grumbles good-naturedly about the parade goers who jam the west 
Pasadena neighborhood each year. 
The parade moves out slowly, passing the sprawling Norton Simon Museum of Art, 
then moving into Old Pasadena, the city's commercial district. 
Old Pasadena is where city planners like to tout their city's spirit of 
creativity. In less than 10 years, the area has gone from Skid Row to "Westwood 
East." Buildings that once moldered in disuse now house a Cajun restaurant, a 
fitness club, an espresso bar and a disco. More than 120 new businesses have 
opened there since 1980. 
Doug Brignole was one of the pioneers. He bought an 80-year-old DeLacey Avenue 
stable in 1985 and turned it into a prosperous health club. 
Not everyone is overjoyed about the crowds of young urban professionals surging 
from shop to shop. 
"It has a shiny new coat of paint, but, yeah, it's lost something," said Paul 
Elliott, a former Art Center College of Design student. 
"My favorite place was a bar called Hazel's," he said, "where the old-timers 
used to sit at the bar and drink straight shots of whiskey. . . . Now I see 
they've built a Benetton's where the Salvation Army used to be. That's the end 
of any neighborhood." 
His is a minority view. Cassandra Einstein, a San Marino artist who sips cafe 
au lait at a Colorado Boulevard cafe, likes it just fine. 
"Everybody who lives in Hollywood thinks this is the slow lane out here," said 
Einstein, a recent Los Angeles transplant. "But this is a charming little place 
to get yourself together in the morning." 
A mile or so to the north of the parade route, Carolyn Stonestreet sits on a 
bench at a Fair Oaks Avenue bus stop, talking about her troubled life in 
northwest Pasadena. 
"I'm basically homeless now," she said. "I'm staying with my sister and her 
boyfriend. I took my kids to their grandmother." 
Stonestreet's problems began when, after a long custody fight for her children 
-- now 5 and 9 -- she was dismissed by the pharmaceutical firm where she had 
worked for 14 years. 
"Welfare sent me to a shelter in downtown Los Angeles," she said, sobbing 
quietly. "I was terrified. I came back to Pasadena and told the social worker 
it was unbelievable. I'd rather sleep on the streets over here than go back 
over there." 
This is the neighborhood where the underclass of Pasadena lives. Predominantly 
black, northwest Pasadena had about 102 drive-by shootings in 1989. Six people 
were killed and 69 injured -- many of them innocent bystanders -- in shooting 
incidents, police say. 
The neighborhood also has many hard-working homeowners and apartment dwellers, 
sometimes overwhelmed by the crime around them. "The attitude by the 
authorities seems to be, as long as it's not blown out of proportion, let it 
go," one resident said. 
"It's a population that's basically a labor population" but "there's not a 
single smokestack in Pasadena," said Ibrahim Naeem, director of the 
Pasadena-Foothill Branch of the Los Angeles Urban League. 
The result is a vast gap between haves and have-nots. A city commission on 
youth and families recently compared income levels in a census tract in 
northwest Pasadena with one in wealthy west Pasadena. They found a $68,170 
difference in median family income. 
Often, that gap translates into a black Pasadena and a white Pasadena, black 
leaders contend. "The city's attitude in the past can be called neglect at 
best," Naeem said. 
The Board of City Directors (Pasadena's city council) has tried recently to 
assuage the restive black community, which constitutes about 25% of the city. 
Last month, after months of criticism, the board authorized a $100,000 audit of 
city personnel practices to determine whether city policies have been racist or 
sexist over the past five years. 
When the parade reaches the corner of Marengo Avenue, it is in developer 
territory, say slow-growth activists. 
The construction of the two-block Plaza Pasadena mall, between Marengo and Los 
Robles avenues, was one of the first signs that the city was on a 
no-holds-barred growth track, said Mike Salazar, co-chairman of Pasadenan 
Residents In Defense of our Environment (PRIDE). 
After 1977, when the Community Redevelopment Agency demolished such older 
structures as the Pasadena Athletic Club to make way for the mall, slow-growth 
resistance started to build. There were early battles, like a 1980 petition 
drive that ultimately stopped a plan for twin office towers in the middle of 
town. But boxy office towers continued to spring up, particularly along 
traffic-clogged Lake and Los Robles avenues. 
City planners say 156 office buildings have been built in the city since 1980, 
almost doubling office space to about 9.7 million square feet. At the same 
time, condominium projects popped up like toadstools. 
"People would go to the city and complain that it wasn't fair to their 
neighborhoods, which had been single-family homes for years," said Claire 
Bogaard, executive director of the preservation group Pasadena Heritage. "But 
generally the developers got their way." 
The scene was set for a battle at the polls. Last March, PRIDE won, as 57% of 
the voters approved a measure to restrict new housing and large commercial 
projects. 
City leaders worry that the measure will stifle the entrepreneurial spirit that 
brought Pasadena out of economic doldrums. "It's already causing a housing 
scarcity and driving up prices," Mayor Thomson said. 
William Podley, president of the Pasadena-based real estate firm of Podley 
Caughey Associates, says prices are indeed skyrocketing. 
"Properties we handled last year for $190,000 or $195,000 are going for 
$240,000, maybe even $250,000." he said. 
The parade passes Hill Avenue, a main thoroughfare for Pasadena City College 
and, a few blocks to the south, Caltech. A mile north of the route, on 
Washington Boulevard, Mary Donikian doles out baklava for a customer at the 
American Armenian Grocery. 
It is a fragrant place, full of the dried fruits, nuts and cheeses that 
Armenians serve during the holidays. 
Armenians used to celebrate Christmas on Jan. 6, commemorating the arrival of 
the three kings on the Day of Epiphany. "But we're getting used to American 
ways," said Donikian, who came to the United States from Lebanon 10 years ago. 
Getting used to those ways has been tough going for many of Pasadena's 15,000 
Armenians. Refugees from discrimination in the Middle East and repression in 
the Soviet Union, most arrive with little knowledge of English and few job 
skills. 
Yet Pasadena has accepted them with extraordinary generosity, Armenian leaders 
say. 
In 1985, the Board of Directors gave Armenians a special protected status in 
awarding city contracts and recruiting for city jobs. Now, a polling firm is 
conducting the first-ever Armenian census to implement an affirmative action 
program. 
It has not been easy sledding, said Serge Samoniantz, whose firm is doing the 
census. 
"Those who have had experience with local government in the Soviet Union are 
extremely distrustful of anything that smacks of government," Samoniantz said. 
A hard right onto Sierra Madre Boulevard, and the parade comes to rest in 
Victory Park, where the colorful floats are then put on display. 
It's an appropriate resting place. Eastern Pasadena is the middle-income, 
home-owning bedrock of the city. The residents here are civil servants, 
contractors, small-business owners. 
A few blocks east of Victory Park is Upper Hastings Ranch, a hillside 
neighborhood of winding streets and slanted roofs. 
The holiday season is their neighborhood's time to shine. 
For the past 34 years, residents have lit up the night with a torrent of 
Christmas lights. So extravagant is the display that tour buses and long lines 
of cars edge through narrow streets. 
Committees impose unifying themes on each block -- Cartwright Street has the 12 
Days of Christmas -- and a panel of judges awards prizes for the best use of 
lights and the best humorous display. 
The Upper Hastings Ranch "light-up," as residents call it, is brilliant but, in 
the end, ephemeral. From her front lawn, Dottie Csik, whose evergreen bushes 
are seeded with tiny white lights, takes in the short-lived illumination. 
"After New Year's, it's like a morgue around here," she said. 
Rose Parade Starts at 8:10 A.M. 
The 101st Tournament of Roses Parade begins at 8:10 a.m. at Orange Grove and 
Del Mar boulevards, proceeds east along Colorado Boulevard to Sierra Madre 
Boulevard and ends at Paloma Street about two hours later. Post-parade viewing 
opens at 1:30 p.m. For more information, the parade hot line is (818) 584-5983. 
THE ORDER OF MARCH 
1. Riverside Community College Band 
2. Quarter Horse Assn. Equestrian Group 
3. American Honda Motor Co. Float 
4. Bashkir Curly Registry Equestrian Group 
5. Slice Float 
6. Spirit of America Foundation Float 
7. U.S. Marine Corps Color Guard Equestrian Group 
8. Grand Marshal 
9. U.S. Marine Corps Marching Band 
10. BC&amp;T Workers Union Float 
11. Cal Poly Float 
12. Montie Montana Group (Equestrian) 
13. ARCO Float 
14. Zurich Police Band 
15. Glendale Float 
16. Carnation Float 
17. T of R Royal Court Float 
18. PCC Honor Band 
19. Duarte/City of Hope Float 
20. George Putnam Group (Equestrian) 
21. K Mart Float 
22. Wee Wheelers Miniature Group (Equestrian) 
23. Burbank Float 
24. Tournament President 
25. Alexis I. duPont Marching Band 
26. Sea World Float 
27. Richard Saukko White Group (Equestrian) 
28. Los Angeles Float 
29. Valley Hunt Club Equestrian Group 
30. Pacific-10 Conference Float 
31. Pacific-10 Conference Band 
32. Casablanca Fans Float 
33. Belles &amp; Beaus of 1800s Equestrian Group 
34. Mississippi Float 
35. Mayor of Pasadena 
36. Arcadia Float 
37. Bill Stack Arabian Group (Equestrian) 
38. Odd Fellows &amp; Rebekahs Float 
39. Castle Park High School Marchers 
40. La Canada Flintridge Float 
41. Big Ten Conference Float 
42. Big Ten Conference Band 
43. Dr. Pepper Float 
44. Palos Verdes Peruvian Pasos Equestrian Group 
45. First Interstate Bank Float 
46. International Andalusians Equestrian Group 
47. FTD Float 
48. Security Pacific Bank Float 
49. The Salvation Army Band 
50. Baskin Robbins Ice Cream Float 
51. I.H.O.P. Float 
52. Medieval Times Horse Group 
53. Golden State Foods Float 
54. Moanaloa High School Band 
55. Portland Rose Festival Float 
56. Ebony Horsewomen Equestrian Group 
57. Torrance Float 
58. American Riding Club/Handicapped Equestrian Group 
59. Puerto Rico Float 
60. Jefferson High School Band 
61. Bank of America Float 
62. St. Louis Float 
63. Long Beach Mounted Police Group 
64. Elks Float 
65. Cicero High School Band 
66. Transamerica Life Float 
67. Indian Group (Iron Eyes Cody) (Equestrian) 
68. Rand McNally Float 
69. Ft. Hauchuca B Troop Equestrian Group 
70. Cooper High School Band 
71. Kiwanis International Float 
72. General Motors / UAW Float 
73. Western Group (Equestrian) 
74. La-Z-Boy Float 
75. South Pasadena Float 
76. East Carteret High School Band 
77. Galloping Gossips Equestrian Group 
78. Eastman Kodak Float 
79. UNOCAL Float 
80. L.A. All-City High School Band 
81. Better Homes &amp; Gardens Float 
82. Morgan Horse Assn. Equestrian Group 
83. Republic of Indonesia Float 
84. Sampoerna (Indonesia) Band 
85. Farmers Insurance Float 
86. Donkey &amp; Mule Society Equestrian Group 
87. Lawry's Float 
88. China Airlines Float 
89. Grove City High School Band 
90. Sierra Madre Float 
91. Sheraton Corporation Float 
92. Arabian Group Freddie Miller (Equestrian) 
93. Malaysia Float 
94. Tenri-Kiyo High School Band 
95. Century 21 Float 
96. Al Malaikah Silver Patrol Equestrian Group 
97. Alhambra/Mobile Float 
98. Golden Spike Riders Equestrian Group 
99. Epson America Float 
100. Missoula High School Band 
101. Long Beach Float 
102. Camarillo White Horse Group (Equestrian) 
103. Rotary International Float 
104. Martinez Horse Family Group (Equestrian) 
105. California Federation of Women's Clubs Float 
106. Merced High School Band 
107. Huntington Hotel Float 
108. Sacramento Sheriff's Posse Equestrian Group 
109. Downey Float 
110. Santa Ana Winds Youth Band 
111. Lutheran Hour Float 
112. Swirling Sands Drill Team Equestrian Group 
113. Carson Float 
114. One More Time Around Again Band 
115. L.A. County Sheriff's Patrol Equestrian Group 
