Each year, The Times' Food Section publishes more than 2,000 recipes, ranging 
from down-home entrees to ethnic desserts. Selecting a few favorites from a 
list the size of 10 cookbooks is a challenging yet enviable annual task. A few 
of '89's bests are featured below; recipes begin on H11. 
BRIE WITH SUN DRIED TOMATO TOPPING 
2 pounds Brie cheese 
5 tablespoons minced parsley leaves 
5 tablespoons freshly grated Parmesan cheese 
10 sun dried tomatoes, packed in oil, minced 
2 1/2 tablespoons oil from sun dried tomatoes 
12 cloves garlic, mashed 
2 tablespoons minced fresh basil 
3 tablespoons toasted pine nuts, coarsely chopped 
Chill Brie well before handling. Remove rind from top and place cheese on 
serving platter. Combine parsley, Parmesan, tomatoes, oil, garlic, basil and 
pine nuts. Spread on top of Brie. 
Serve at once or refrigerate for later use. For optimum flavor, allow Brie to 
stand 30 to 60 minutes when removed from refrigerator. Makes 16 servings. 
LEMON SQUARES 
1 cup butter 
Powdered sugar 
2 cups sifted flour 
Filling 
Blend together butter and 1/2 cup powdered sugar until pale in color. Mix in 
flour. Press into lightly buttered 13x9-inch baking pan. Bake at 350 degrees 20 
to 25 minutes or until set. Set aside. 
Pour Filling over cookie layer and bake at 350 degrees 25 to 30 minutes. Cool 
slightly, then cut into squares. Dust lightly with additional powdered sugar. 
Makes 3 dozen. 
Filling 
4 eggs 
2 cups sugar 
1/3 cup lemon juice 
1/4 cup flour 
1/2 teaspoon baking powder 
Combine eggs, sugar, lemon juice, flour and baking powder. 
COMMANDER'S PALACE CHOCOLATE FUDGE SHEBA 
1 1/4 pounds semisweet chocolate, broken into pieces 
6 egg yolks 
3/4 cup unsalted butter, at room temperature 
7 egg whites 
1/2 cup sugar 
1 cup chopped pecans 
Creme Anglaise 
Melt chocolate in top of double boiler over simmering water, stirring until 
smooth. Set aside to cool. 
Whisk egg yolks in medium bowl over simmering water until warm and lighter in 
color, about 2 minutes. Remove from heat and whisk until cool, about 1 minute. 
Cream butter in large bowl until light and fluffy. Fold in cooled melted 
chocolate, then egg yolks. 
Beat egg whites in large bowl until soft peaks form. Gradually beat in sugar, 1 
tablespoon at time, until meringue forms stiff peaks. 
Fold meringue into chocolate mixture. Pour into buttered 9-inch springform pan. 
Sprinkle chopped pecans over top and press lightly into chocolate. Cover with 
plastic wrap and refrigerate until set, at least 3 hours. 
Remove sides of springform, cut into slices and serve with Creme Anglaise. 
Makes 12 to 16 servings. 
Creme Anglaise 
2 cups whipping cream 
1/3 cup sugar 
1 vanilla bean 
6 egg yolks 
Combine cream, sugar and vanilla bean in medium saucepan. Bring to boiling 
point, then remove from heat. 
Beat egg yolks and add small amount of cream mixture, blending well. Add to 
remaining cream mixture and cook over low heat 1 minute. Do not boil. 
Cool, then chill. Remove vanilla bean before serving. Makes 2 1/4 cups. 
EXQUISITE SALAD 
1 cup white and brown rice mix 
1/4 cup white wine vinegar 
3/4 cup olive oil 
1 teaspoon sugar 
1 clove garlic, minced 
1 cup cilantro leaves 
Salt 
White pepper 
2 cups shredded cooked chicken, chilled 
1/2 cup sliced green onions 
1 cup diced tomato 
2 cups chopped escarole 
1 1/2 cups chopped cooked asparagus, chilled 
1 avocado, peeled and chopped 
Prepare rice according to package directions. Chill. Place vinegar, oil, sugar, 
garlic and cilantro in blender container. Blend until smooth. Season to taste 
with salt and white pepper. 
Combine rice, chicken, green onions, tomato, escarole, asparagus and avocado. 
Toss with dressing. Serve immediately or chill to blend flavors. Makes 8 cups. 
INDIAN RICE PUDDING WITH TAMARILLO SAUCE 
1 quart half and half or milk 
1/2 cup basmati rice 
1/4 teaspoon salt 
1/2 teaspoon crushed cardamom seeds 
1/4 cup sugar 
1 teaspoon vanilla 
1/4 cup plumped golden raisins 
1/2 cup shredded coconut 
Chopped pistachios 
Tamarillo Sauce 
Combine half and half, rice, salt, cardamom and sugar in large saucepan. Bring 
to boil. Reduce heat, cover and simmer 30 to 40 minutes, until rice is tender. 
Stir in vanilla, raisins, coconut and 2 tablespoons chopped pistachios. Chill. 
Serve pudding topped with Tamarillo Sauce and additional chopped pistachios. 
Makes 4 to 6 servings. 
Tamarillo Sauce 
3 tamarillos 
1/4 cup sugar 
1/4 cup water 
Cover tamarillos with boiling water and let stand 1 to 2 minutes. Plunge into 
cold water, then remove peel and chop. 
Place tamarillo pulp in small saucepan with sugar and water. Bring to boil. 
Reduce heat and simmer until fruit is very soft, 15 to 20 minutes. 
Press fruit through strainer to remove seeds. Chill sauce. Makes about 1/2 cup. 
WORLD'S BEST SUGAR COOKIES 
1 cup butter or margarine 
1 cup powdered sugar 
Granulated sugar 
2 eggs 
1 cup oil 
2 teaspoons vanilla 
1 teaspoon baking soda 
1 teaspoon cream of tartar 
1/2 teaspoon salt 
5 cups flour 
Cream butter with powdered sugar and 1 cup granulated sugar. Beat in eggs until 
smooth. Slowly stir in oil, vanilla, baking soda, cream of tartar, salt and 
flour. 
Chill dough for easy handling. Shape into walnut-size balls. Dip in granulated 
sugar. Place on baking sheet and press down. Bake at 350 degrees 10 to 12 
minutes. Makes about 4 dozen. 
RUSSIAN CABBAGE SOUP 
1 (28-ounce) can tomatoes 
6 cups water 
3 pounds beef brisket 
2 soup bones 
1 (6-ounce) can tomato paste 
2 pounds cabbage, coarsely shredded 
2 tablespoons coarse salt 
3/4 cup sugar 
Juice of 1 lemon, or to taste 
Dash cayenne pepper 
Dash paprika 
Combine tomatoes and water in large stockpot and bring to boil. Remove all but 
thin layer of fat from beef and cut into large chunks. 
Add beef, bones, tomato paste, cabbage, salt, sugar, lemon juice, cayenne and 
paprika to stockpot, stirring to blend. Simmer, with lid ajar, 2 to 2 1/2 hours 
or until meat is tender. 
Remove bones before serving. Makes 6 to 8 servings. 
Note: If desired, beef may be removed and served separately as boiled beef. 
AUTUMN CRISP SALAD WITH PERSIMMON DRESSING 
1 chayote, peeled, pitted and thinly sliced 
1 bunch spinach, stemmed, washed and dried 
1 small red onion, thinly sliced 
2 oranges, peeled and sliced 
Salt, pepper 
1/2 cup toasted chopped Brazil nuts 
4 ounces ricotta, formed into balls 
Persimmon Dressing 
Combine chayote, spinach, red onion and orange slices in salad bowl. Season to 
taste with salt and pepper. 
Just before serving, top with toasted nuts and ricotta balls. (Or compose salad 
on large platter.) Serve with Persimmon Dressing. Makes about 6 servings. 
Persimmon Dressing 
1 very ripe persimmon, peeled 
1/4 cup oil 
1 to 2 tablespoons rice vinegar (depending on tartness of persimmon) 
1/2 teaspoon sugar 
2 teaspoons minced fresh sage 
1 clove garlic, minced 
1/4 cup mayonnaise 
2 to 4 tablespoons orange juice 
Salt, pepper 
Process persimmon pulp in blender until smooth. Remove from blender and place 
in small bowl. Mix in oil, rice vinegar, sugar, sage, garlic and mayonnaise. 
Add orange juice to desired consistency. Season to taste with salt and pepper. 
Makes about 1 cup. 
CAROLYN CAPACILLO'S MOLDED CHICK-A-RONI COUP 
1/2 pound bacon 
2 pounds boned chicken breast, diced 
Salt, pepper 
2 egg whites 
2 tablespoons cornstarch 
1/2 cup butter 
1/2 cup minced onion 
1/3 cup minced celery 
1/2 cup minced Bilbao-style chorizo, or pepperoni 
1/2 pound cooked ham, diced 
1 1/2 cups shredded cheese 
1 cup whipping cream 
1/2 cup raisins 
1/2 cup sweet pickle relish 
1/2 cup green peas 
5 eggs 
1 tablespoon Maggi seasoning 
1 1/2 teaspoons dry mustard 
1/2 pound salad macaroni, cooked and drained 
Sauce 
Line 12-cup ring mold with bacon slices. Mix diced chicken with salt and pepper 
to taste, egg whites and cornstarch and let stand at least 1/2 hour. 
Melt butter in skillet and stir-fry chicken until meat is no longer pink. Add 
onion, celery, chorizo and ham. Saute 3 minutes. Remove from heat. Cool 
slightly. 
Mix in cheese, whipping cream, raisins, pickle relish and green peas. Cool. 
Beat eggs with seasoning, dry mustard and 2 teaspoons salt. Add cooked 
macaroni. Mix in chicken mixture to blend. Turn into bacon-lined pan and pack 
lightly. 
Cover with foil. Bake at 350 degrees 1 hour or until set. Turn out onto serving 
platter and garnish as desired. Serve with Sauce. Makes 12 to 15 servings. 
Note: If desired, loaf may be served without Sauce. 
Sauce 
1/4 cup butter 
2 tablespoons minced garlic 
1/3 cup minced onion 
2 tablespoons flour 
2 cups canned tomato sauce 
3/4 cup water 
1 bay leaf, crumbled 
1/2 teaspoon ground oregano 
1/4 teaspoon cayenne pepper 
2 chicken bouillon cubes, crushed 
Salt, pepper 
1/2 cup minced parsley 
Melt butter in saucepan and saute garlic until lightly golden. Add and saute 
onion until tender. 
Stir in flour and cook 2 minutes. Stir in tomato sauce, water, bay leaf, 
oregano, cayenne and bouillon cubes. Simmer 20 minutes. 
Season to taste with salt and pepper. Add minced parsley. Makes 2 1/4 cups. 
BUTTERFIELD'S CHICKEN CURRY SALAD 
2 quarts water 
1/4 cup Sherry wine vinegar 
3 whole chicken breasts, skin removed 
1 large green pepper, diced 
1 large Pippin apple, diced 
3 large stalks celery, diced 
5 green onions, green part only, sliced 
1 cup mango chutney 
1 cup plain yogurt 
6 tablespoons mayonnaise, preferably homemade 
1 tablespoon curry powder, preferably Madras, or to taste 
1/4 cup cup raisins 
1/2 cup untoasted sliced almonds 
1 1/2 teaspoons freshly ground black pepper or to taste 
Mixed baby lettuces 
Combine water and vinegar in large saucepan. Add chicken, bring to boil, then 
simmer over medium heat 10 minutes or until chicken is tender. Remove chicken 
from water and cool, then cut into cubes or pieces. 
Combine green pepper, apple, celery, green onions and all but 2 tablespoons 
chutney in large bowl. Add chicken, yogurt, mayonnaise, curry powder, raisins 
and almonds. Mix to coat chicken well. Add pepper. Chill 1 hour. 
Serve over mixed baby lettuces and garnish each serving with 1 teaspoon of 
remaining chutney. Makes 6 servings. 
M.B.'S ARROZ CON CALDO DE POLLO (Rice With Chicken Broth) 
1 (3-pound) whole chicken 
Celery leaves 
6 black peppercorns 
2 teaspoons minced garlic 
2 tablespoons oil 
1 tablespoon minced ginger root 
1 medium onion, chopped 
1 cup rice 
Salt 
White pepper 
Lemon wedges 
Chopped green onions 
Place chicken in large stock pot and cover with 3 quarts water. Add few celery 
leaves and peppercorns. Bring to boil, reduce heat and simmer about 1 hour or 
until tender. 
Remove chicken, strain and reserve broth. Cool chicken enough to handle, then 
bone and skin. Chop or shred meat and set aside. 
Saute garlic in oil in large stock pot until light golden. Remove 1 teaspoon 
and reserve for garnish. Add ginger to remaining garlic in pan and saute about 
1 minute. Add onion and saute until tender. 
Add rice, stirring to coat with oil. Add reserved broth. Season to taste with 
salt and white pepper. Bring to boil, cover, reduce heat and simmer until rice 
is tender, 10 to 15 minutes. Add chicken and heat through. 
Serve with lemon wedges to squeeze into soup as desired. Garnish with reserved 
garlic and green onions. Makes 10 to 12 servings. 
CITRUS CREME BRULEE 
10 eggs, separated 
3/4 cup granulated sugar 
3/4 cup milk 
2 1/4 cups whipping cream 
1 tablespoon vanilla 
1/4 cup brown sugar, packed 
Mix egg yolks and 1/2 cup sugar until well combined and sugar has dissolved. 
Add milk, whipping cream and vanilla and mix well. 
Place 1 (13x9-inch) glass baking dish or 6 (5-inch) fluted glass flan dishes in 
baking pan. Pour creme brulee mixture into baking dish or fill flan dishes 3/4 
full with mixture. 
Place in oven and fill baking pan with hot water up 3/4 sides of dishes. Bake 
at 350 degrees 30 to 40 minutes or until knife inserted near center comes out 
clean. Remove dishes from hot water bath and set aside to cool. 
Combine remaining 1/4 cup granulated and brown sugars. Sprinkle top of each 
serving evenly with combined sugars. 
Caramelize sugars with torch. If torch is not available, place creme brulee in 
refrigerator until chilled. When ready to serve, place sugar-coated creme in 
preheated boiler 5 minutes to brown, being careful not to scorch. Makes 6 
servings. 
Note: If using 13x9-inch baking dish, individual servings may be cut out with 
cookie cutter for scalloped effect, if desired. 
